docs/jobs/jobfile.md, before:

Job Definition File (JDF) a way how to submit a complex pipeline into a HyperQueue.
It is a [TOML](https://toml.io/) file that describes tasks of a job.
JDF provides all functionalities as command line interface of HyperQueue and also adds access to additional features:

* *Heterogeneous tasks* -- Job may be composed of different tasks
* *Dependencies* -- Tasks may have dependencies
* *Resource request alternatives* -- Task may have alternative resource requests, e.g.: 4 cpus OR 1 cpus and 1 gpu

Note that these features are also available through Python interface.

## Minimal example

First, we create file with the following content:

```toml
[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "1"]
```

Let us assume that we have named this file as ``myfile.toml``,
then we can run the [`hq job submit-file`](cli:hq.job.submit-file) command to submit a job:

```bash
$ hq job submit-file myfile.toml
```

The effect will be same as running:

```bash
$ hq submit sleep 1
```

## Task configuration

The following shows how job and task may be configured in more detail.
All options except `command` are optional.
If not said otherwise, an option in format `xxx = ...`
is an equivalent of `--xxx = ... ` in `hq submit` command.
The default are the same as CLI interface.

```toml

name = "test-job"
stream = "path/to/stream/dir"  # Stdout/Stderr streaming (see --stream)
max_fails = 11

[[task]]
stdout = "testout-%{TASK_ID}"
stderr = { path = "testerr-%{TASK_ID}", mode = "rm-if-finished" }
task_dir = true
time_limit = "1m 10s"
priority = -1
crash_limit = 12
command = ["/bin/bash", "-c", "echo $ABC"]

# Environment variables
env = { "ABC" = "123", "XYZ" = "aaaa" }

# Content that will be written on stdin
stdin = "Hello world!"

[[task.request]]
resources = { "cpus" = "4 compact!", "gpus" = 2 }
time_request = "10s"
```

## More tasks

More tasks with different configuration may be defined as follows:

```toml
[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "1"]

[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "2"]

[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "3"]
```

In the case above, tasks are given automatic task ids from id 0.
You can also specify IDs manually:

```toml
[[task]]
id = 10
command = ["sleep", "1"]

[[task]]
id = 11
command = ["sleep", "2"]

[[task]]
id = 2
command = ["sleep", "3"]
```

## Task arrays

If you want to create uniform tasks you can define task array (similar to `--array`):

```toml
[array]
ids = "1,2,50-100"
command = ["sleep", "1"]
```

You can also specify array with content of `HQ_ENTRIES`:

```toml
[array]
entries = ["One", "Two", "Three"]
command = ["sleep", "1"]
```

!!! note

    Options `entries` and `ids` can be used together.

## Task dependencies

Job Definition File allows to define a dependencies between tasks. In other words,
it means that the task may be executed only if the previous tasks are already finished.

The task's option `deps` defines on which tasks the given task dependents.
The task is addressed by their IDs.

The following example creates three tasks where the third task depends on the first two tasks.

```toml
[[task]]
id = 1
command = [...]

[[task]]
id = 3
command = [...]

[[task]]
id = 5
command = [...]
deps = [1, 3] # <---- Dependency on tasks 1 and 3
```

## Resource variants

More resource configurations may be defined for a task.
In this case, HyperQueue will take into account all these configurations during scheduling.
When a task is started exactly one configuration is chosen.
If in a given moment more configuration are possible for a given task,
the configuration first defined has a higher priority.

The following configuration defines that a task may be executed on
1 cpus and 1 gpu OR on 4 cpus.

```toml
[[task]]
command = [...]
[[task.request]]
resources = { "cpus" = 1, "gpus" = 1 }
[[task.request]]
resources = { "cpus" = 4 }
```

In the case that many tasks with such a configuration are submitted to a worker with
16 cpus and 4 gpus then HyperQueue will run simultaneously 4 tasks in the first configuration
and 3 tasks in the second one.

For a task with resource variants, HyperQueue sets variable `HQ_RESOURCE_VARIANT`
to an index of chosen variant (counted from 0) when a task is started.

## Non-integer resource amounts

You may specify a resource number as float, e.g. `resources = { "foo" = 1.5 }`.
It is valid but internally the type if converted to float, that may for some numbers lead to
a rounding up when number is converted to 4-digit precision of resource amounts.
If you want to avoid this, put the number into parentheses, e.g. `resources = { "foo" = "1.5" }`.

Commit message:

Allow depending on tasks from an earlier submit in the jobfile

docs/jobs/jobfile.md, after:

Job Definition File (JDF) a way how to submit a complex pipeline into a HyperQueue.
It is a [TOML](https://toml.io/) file that describes tasks of a job.
JDF provides all functionalities as command line interface of HyperQueue and also adds access to additional features:

* *Heterogeneous tasks* -- Job may be composed of different tasks
* *Dependencies* -- Tasks may have dependencies
* *Resource request alternatives* -- Task may have alternative resource requests, e.g.: 4 cpus OR 1 cpus and 1 gpu

Note that these features are also available through Python interface.

## Minimal example

First, we create file with the following content:

```toml
[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "1"]
```

Let us assume that we have named this file as ``myfile.toml``,
then we can run the [`hq job submit-file`](cli:hq.job.submit-file) command to submit a job:

```bash
$ hq job submit-file myfile.toml
```

The effect will be same as running:

```bash
$ hq submit sleep 1
```

## Task configuration

The following shows how job and task may be configured in more detail.
All options except `command` are optional.
If not said otherwise, an option in format `xxx = ...`
is an equivalent of `--xxx = ... ` in `hq submit` command.
The default are the same as CLI interface.

```toml

name = "test-job"
stream = "path/to/stream/dir"  # Stdout/Stderr streaming (see --stream)
max_fails = 11

[[task]]
stdout = "testout-%{TASK_ID}"
stderr = { path = "testerr-%{TASK_ID}", mode = "rm-if-finished" }
task_dir = true
time_limit = "1m 10s"
priority = -1
crash_limit = 12
command = ["/bin/bash", "-c", "echo $ABC"]

# Environment variables
env = { "ABC" = "123", "XYZ" = "aaaa" }

# Content that will be written on stdin
stdin = "Hello world!"

[[task.request]]
resources = { "cpus" = "4 compact!", "gpus" = 2 }
time_request = "10s"
```

## More tasks

More tasks with different configuration may be defined as follows:

```toml
[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "1"]

[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "2"]

[[task]]
command = ["sleep", "3"]
```

In the case above, tasks are given automatic task ids from id 0.
You can also specify IDs manually:

```toml
[[task]]
id = 10
command = ["sleep", "1"]

[[task]]
id = 11
command = ["sleep", "2"]

[[task]]
id = 2
command = ["sleep", "3"]
```

## Task arrays

If you want to create uniform tasks you can define task array (similar to `--array`):

```toml
[array]
ids = "1,2,50-100"
command = ["sleep", "1"]
```

You can also specify array with content of `HQ_ENTRIES`:

```toml
[array]
entries = ["One", "Two", "Three"]
command = ["sleep", "1"]
```

!!! note

    Options `entries` and `ids` can be used together.

## Task dependencies

Job Definition File allows to define dependencies between tasks. In other words,
it means that the task may be executed only if the previous tasks are already finished.

The task's option `deps` defines on which tasks the given task depends.
Each dependency is identified by a task ID.

The following example creates three tasks where the third task depends on the first two tasks.

```toml
[[task]]
id = 1
command = [...]

[[task]]
id = 3
command = [...]

[[task]]
id = 5
command = [...]
deps = [1, 3] # <---- Dependency on tasks 1 and 3
```

Dependencies can also refer to tasks from [earlier submits](openjobs.md) in the same job.

## Resource variants

More resource configurations may be defined for a task.
In this case, HyperQueue will take into account all these configurations during scheduling.
When a task is started exactly one configuration is chosen.
If in a given moment more configuration are possible for a given task,
the configuration first defined has a higher priority.

The following configuration defines that a task may be executed on
1 cpus and 1 gpu OR on 4 cpus.

```toml
[[task]]
command = [...]
[[task.request]]
resources = { "cpus" = 1, "gpus" = 1 }
[[task.request]]
resources = { "cpus" = 4 }
```

In the case that many tasks with such a configuration are submitted to a worker with
16 cpus and 4 gpus then HyperQueue will run simultaneously 4 tasks in the first configuration
and 3 tasks in the second one.

For a task with resource variants, HyperQueue sets variable `HQ_RESOURCE_VARIANT`
to an index of chosen variant (counted from 0) when a task is started.

## Non-integer resource amounts

You may specify a resource number as float, e.g. `resources = { "foo" = 1.5 }`.
It is valid but internally the type if converted to float, that may for some numbers lead to
a rounding up when number is converted to 4-digit precision of resource amounts.
If you want to avoid this, put the number into parentheses, e.g. `resources = { "foo" = "1.5" }`.
