The main unit of computation within HyperQueue is called a **Task**. It represents a single computation
(currently, a single execution of some program) that is scheduled and executed on a worker.

To actually compute something, you have to create a **Job**, which is a collection of tasks (a task
graph). Jobs are units of computation management - you can submit, query or cancel jobs using the CLI.

!!! note

    This section focuses on **simple jobs**, where each job contains exactly one task. See
    [Task arrays](arrays.md) to find out how to create jobs with multiple tasks.

## Identification numbers

Each job is identified by a positive integer that is assigned by the HyperQueue server when the job is submitted. We
refer to it as `Job id`.

Each task within a job is identified by an unsigned 32b integer called `Task id`. Task id is either generated by the
server or assigned by the user. Task ids are always relative to a specific job, two tasks inside different jobs can thus
have the same task id.

In simple jobs, task id is always set to `0`.

## Submitting jobs

To submit a simple job that will execute some executable with the provided arguments, use the `hq submit` command:

```bash
$ hq submit <program> <arg1> <arg2> ...
```

When you submit a job, the server will assign it a unique job id and print it. You can use this ID in following commands
to refer to the submitted job.

After the job is submitted, HyperQueue will distribute it to a connected worker that will then execute the provided
command.

!!! warning

    The provided command will be executed on a [worker](../deployment/worker.md) that might be running on a different
    machine. You should thus make sure that the binary will be available there and that you provide an **absolute path**
    to it.

!!! note

    When your command contains its own command line flags, you must put the command and its flags after `--`:

    ```bash
    $ hq submit -- /bin/bash -c 'echo $PPID'
    ```

There are many parameters that you can set for the executed program, they are listed below.

### Name

Each job has an assigned name. It has only an informative character for the user. By default, the name is derived from
the job's program name. You can also set the job name explicitly with the `--name` option:

```bash
$ hq submit --name=<NAME> ...
```

### Working directory

By default, the working directory of the job will be set to the directory from which the job was submitted. You can
change this using the `--cwd` option:

```bash
$ hq submit --cwd=<path> ...
```

!!! warning

    Make sure that the provided path exists on all worker nodes.

!!! hint

    You can use [placeholders](#placeholders) in the working directory path.

### Output

By default, each job will produce two files containing the standard output and standard error output, respectively. The
default paths of these files are

- `%{CWD}/job-%{JOB_ID}/%{TASK_ID}.stdout` for `stdout`
- `%{CWD}/job-%{JOB_ID}/%{TASK_ID}.stderr` for `stderr`

`%{JOB_ID}` and `%{TASK_ID}` are so-called placeholders, you can read about them [below](#placeholders).

You can change these paths with the `--stdout` and `--stderr` options. You can also avoid creating `stdout`/`stderr`
files completely by setting the value to `none`:

=== "Change output paths"
```bash
$ hq submit --stdout=out.txt --stderr=err.txt ...
```

=== "Disable `stdout`"
```bash
$ hq submit --stdout=none ...
```

!!! warning

    Make sure that the provided path(s) exist on all worker nodes. Also note that if you provide a relative path, it will
    be resolved relative to the directory from where you submit the job, not relative to the
    [working directory](#working-directory) of the job. If you want to change that, use the `%{CWD}` [placeholder](#placeholders).

### Environment variables

You can set environment variables which will be passed to the provided command when the job is executed using the
`--env <KEY>=<VAL>` option. Multiple environment variables can be passed if you repeat the option.

```bash
$ hq submit --env KEY1=VAL1 --env KEY2=VAL2 ...
```

Each executed task will also automatically receive the following environment variables:

| Variable name     | Explanation                                                       |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `HQ_JOB_ID`       | Job id                                                            |
| `HQ_TASK_ID`      | Task id                                                           |
| `HQ_INSTANCE_ID`  | [Instance id](failure.md#task-restart)                            |
| `HQ_RESOURCE_...` | A set of variables related to allocated [resources](resources.md) |

### Time management

You can specify two time-related parameters when submitting a job. They will be applied to each task of the submitted
job.

- **Time Limit** is the maximal running time of a task. If it is reached, the task will be terminated, and it will
  transition into the `Failed` [state](#task-state). This setting has no impact on scheduling.

  This can serve as a sanity check to make sure that some task will not run indefinitely. You can set it with the
  `--time-limit` option[^2]:

    ```bash
    $ hq submit --time-limit=<duration> ...
    ```

  !!! note

        Time limit is counted separately for each task. If you set a time limit of `3 minutes` and create two tasks,
        where each will run for two minutes, the time limit will not be hit.

- **Time Request** is the minimal remaining [lifetime](../deployment/worker.md#time-limit) that a worker must have in
  order
  to start executing the task. Workers that do not have enough remaining lifetime will not be considered for running
  this
  task.

  Time requests are only used during scheduling, where the server decides which worker should execute which task.
  Once a task is scheduled and starts executing on a worker, the time request value will not have any effect.

  You can set the time request using the `--time-request` option[^2]:

     ```bash
     $ hq submit --time-request=<duration> ...
     ```

  !!! note

        Workers with an unknown remaining lifetime will be able to execute any task, disregarding its time request.

[^2]: You can use various [shortcuts](../cli/shortcuts.md#duration) for the duration value.

Here is an example situation where time limit and time request can be used:

Let's assume that we have a collection of tasks where the vast majority of tasks usually finish within `10` minutes, but
some of them run for (at most) `30` minutes. We do not know in advance which tasks will be "slow". In this case we may
want
to set the *time limit* to `35` minutes to protect us against an error (deadlock, endless loop, etc.).

However, since we know that each task will usually take *at least* `10` minutes to execute, we don't want to start
executing it on a worker if we know that the worker will definitely terminate in less than `10` minutes. It would only
cause unnecessary lost computational resources. Therefore, we can set the *time request* to `10` minutes.

### Priority

You can modify the order in which tasks are executed using **Priority**. Priority can be any 32b *signed* integer. A
lower number signifies lower priority, e.g. when task `A` with priority `5` and task `B` with priority `3` are scheduled
to the same worker and only one of them may be executed, then `A` will be executed first.

You can set the priority using the `--priority` option:

```bash
$hq submit --priority=<PRIORITY>
```

If no priority is specified, then each task will have priority `0`.

### Placeholders

You can use special variables when setting certain job parameters ([working directory](#working-directory),
[output](#output) paths, [stream](streaming.md#redirecting-task-output) path). These variables, called
**Placeholders**, will be replaced by job or task-specific information before the job is executed.

Placeholders are enclosed in curly braces (`{}`) and prefixed with a percent (`%`) sign.

You can use the following placeholders:

| Placeholder      | Will be replaced by                         | Available for                           |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| `%{JOB_ID}`      | Job ID                                      | `stdout`, `stderr`, `cwd`, `stream-dir` |
| `%{TASK_ID}`     | Task ID                                     | `stdout`, `stderr`, `cwd`               |
| `%{INSTANCE_ID}` | [Instance ID](failure.md#task-restart)      | `stdout`, `stderr`, `cwd`               |
| `%{SUBMIT_DIR}`  | Directory from which the job was submitted. | `stdout`, `stderr`, `cwd`, `stream-dir` |
| `%{CWD}`         | Working directory of the task.              | `stdout`, `stderr`                      |
| `%{SERVER_UID}`  | Unique server ID.                           | `stdout`, `stderr`, `cwd`, `stream-dir` |

`SERVER_UID` is a random string that is unique for each new server execution (each `hq server start` gets a separate
value).

As an example, if you wanted to include the [Instance ID](failure.md#task-restart) in the `stdout` path (to
distinguish the individual outputs of restarted tasks), you can use placeholders like this:

```bash
$ hq submit --stdout '%{CWD}/job-%{JOB_ID}/%{TASK_ID}-%{INSTANCE_ID}.stdout' ...
```

## State

At any moment in time, each task and job has a specific *state* that represents what is currently happening to it. You
can query the state of a job with the following command[^1]:

```bash
$ hq job info <job-id>
```

[^1]: You can use various [shortcuts](../cli/shortcuts.md#id-selector) to select multiple jobs at once.

### Task state

Each task starts in the `Waiting` state and can end up in one of the terminal states: `Finished`, `Failed`
or `Canceled`.

```
Waiting-----------------\
   | ^                  |
   | |                  |
   v |                  |
Running-----------------|
   | |                  |
   | \--------\         |
   |          |         |
   v          v         v
Finished    Failed   Canceled
```

- **Waiting** The task was submitted and is now waiting to be executed.
- **Running** The task is running on a worker. It may become `Waiting` again when the worker where the task is running
  crashes.
- **Finished** The task has successfully finished.
- **Failed** The task has failed.
- **Canceled** The task has been [canceled](#cancelling-jobs).

If a task is in the `Finished`, `Failed` or `Canceled` state, it is `completed`.

### Job state

The state of a job is derived from the states of its individual tasks. The state is determined by the first rule that
matches from the following list of rules:

1. If at least one task is `Running`, then job state is `Running`.
2. If at least one task has not been `completed` yet, then job state is `Waiting`.
3. If at least one task is `Failed`, then job state is `Failed`.
4. If at least one task is `Canceled`, then job state is `Canceled`.
5. If all tasks are finished and job is open (see [Open Jobs](openjobs.md)), then job state is `Opened`.
5. Remaining case: all tasks are `Finished` and job is closed, then job state is `Finished`.

## Cancelling jobs

You can prematurely terminate a submitted job that haven't been completed yet by *cancelling* it using
the `hq job cancel`
command[^1]:

```bash
$ hq job cancel <job-selector>
```

Cancelling a job will cancel all of its tasks that are not yet completed.

## Forgetting jobs

If you want to completely forget a job, and thus free up its associated memory, you can do that using
the `hq job forget` command[^1]:

```console
$ hq job forget <job-selector>
```

By default, all completed jobs (finished/failed/canceled) will be forgotten. You can use the `--status` parameter to
only forget jobs in certain statuses:

```console
$ hq job forget all --status finished,canceled
```

However, only jobs that are completed, i.e. that have been finished successfully, failed or have been canceled, can be
forgotten. If you want to forget a waiting or a running job, [cancel](#cancelling-jobs) it first.

Note that if you are using a journal, forgetting only free the memory of the server but the tasks remains
in journal, run `hq journal prune` to remove completed jobs and workers from journal file.

## Waiting for jobs

There are three ways of waiting until a job completes:

- **Submit and wait** You can use the `--wait` flag when submitting a job. This will cause the submission command to
  wait until the job becomes complete:

    ```bash
    $ hq submit --wait ...
    ```

  !!! tip

        This method can be used for benchmarking the job duration.

- **Wait command** There is a separate `hq job wait` command that can be used to wait until an existing job
  completes[^1]:

    ```bash
    $ hq job wait <job-selector>
    ```

- **Interactive wait** If you want to interactively observe the status of a job (which is useful especially if it
  has [multiple tasks](arrays.md)), you can use the `hq job progress` command:

  === "Submit and observe"
  ```bash
  $ hq submit --progress ...
  ```
  === "Observe an existing job[^1]"
  ```bash
  $ hq job progress <selector>
  ```

## Attaching standard input

When ``--stdin`` flag is used, HQ captures standard input and attaches it to each task of a job.
When a task is started then the attached data is written into the standard input of the task.

This can be used to submitting scripts without creating file.
The following command will capture stdin and executes it in Bash

```bash
$ hq submit --stdin bash
```

If you want to parse #HQ directives from standard input, you can use ``--directives=stdin``.

## Task directory

When a job is submitted with ``--task-dir`` then a temporary directory is created for each task and
passed via environment variable ``HQ_TASK_DIR``. This directory is automatically deleted
when the task is completed (for any reason).

## Providing own error message

A task may pass its own error message into the HyperQueue.
HyperQueue provides a filename via environment variable ``HQ_ERROR_FILENAME``,
if a task creates this file and terminates with a non-zero return code,
then the content of this file is taken as an error message.

``HQ_ERROR_FILENAME`` is provided only if task directory is set on. The filename is always
placed inside the task directory.

If the message is longer than 2KiB, then it is truncated to 2KiB.

If task terminates with zero return code, then the error file is ignored.

## Automatic file cleanup

If you create a lot of tasks and do not use [output streaming](streaming.md), a lot of `stdout`/`stderr`
files can be created on the disk. In certain cases, you might not be interested in the contents of these files,
especially
if the task has finished successfully, and you instead want to remove them as soon as they are not needed.

For that, you can use a file cleanup mode when specifying `stdout` and/or `stderr` to choose what should happen with
the file when its task finishes. The mode is specified as a name following a colon (`:`) after the file path.
Currently, one cleanup mode is implemented:

- Remove the file if the task has [finished](#task-state) successfully:

```bash
$ hq submit --stdout="out.txt:rm-if-finished" /my-program
```

The file will not be deleted if the task fails or is cancelled.

!!! Note
If you want to use the default `stdout`/`stderr` file path (and you don't want to look it up), you can also specify
just the cleanup mode without the file path:
```bash
$ hq submit --stdout=":rm-if-finished" /my-program
```

## Useful job commands

Here is a list of useful job commands:

### Display job table

=== "List queued and running jobs"
```bash
$ hq job list
```
=== "List all jobs"
```bash
$ hq job list --all
```
=== "List jobs by status"
You can display only jobs having the selected [states](#job-state) by using the `--filter` flag:

    ```bash
    $ hq job list --filter running,waiting
    ```

    Valid filter values are:

    - `waiting`
    - `running`
    - `finished`
    - `failed`
    - `canceled`

### Display a summary table of all jobs

```commandline
$ hq job summary
```

### Display information about a specific job

```commandline
$ hq job info <job-selector>
```

### Display information about individual tasks (potentially across multiple jobs)

```commandline
$ hq task list <job-selector> [--task-status <status>] [--tasks <task-selector>]
```

### Display job `stdout`/`stderr`

```commandline
$ hq job cat <job-id> [--tasks <task-selector>] <stdout/stderr>
```

## Crashing limit

When a worker is lost then all running tasks on the worker are suspicious that they may cause the crash of the
worker. HyperQueue server remembers how many times were a task running while a worker is lost. If the count
reaches the limit, then the task is set to the failed state.
By default, this limit is `5` but it can be changed as follows:

```commandline
$ hq submit --crash-limit=<NEWLIMIT> ...
```

If the limit is set to 0, then the limit is disabled.